Darcy's law and continuity support the conventional interpretation of transmissivity and storage.
In complex media, flux and gradient responses may not be simultaneous; either may lead.
The question is whether two lag parameters earn their complexity under penalized comparison.
Lag ratios and characteristic times are diagnostics, not unique mechanism identifiers.
The shifted law evaluates flux at t plus tau q and gradient at t plus tau s.
The two lags have three regimes: tau q greater than, equal to, or less than tau s.
Theta is tau s divided by tau q, a compact diagnostic of relative lag order.
The paper associates theta below one with inertia and theta above one with microstructure; this is not causal proof.
Equation 4 defines characteristic time from aquifer geometry and the lag ratio.
Normalized by the Darcy time, the equation gives tau q over tau s, or one over theta; later prose points both ways.
Four parameters are fitted by trust-region-reflective least squares; each well estimate averages a support volume.
AIC and BIC balance fit against complexity; lower values express relative preference, not physical truth.
Across the examined cases, the paper reports lower AIC and BIC for the lagging model.
Copulas interpolate conditionally between irregular well support volumes; the field is not directly observed.
The fifth-to-ninety-fifth percentile width comes from copula conditional distributions, not posteriors.
Interpolated lag fields form a spatial theta diagnostic; wells remain support-volume averages.
On linear axes, the paper reports R squared of 0.83; the plotted point locations are schematic.
On log axes, R squared rises to 0.96, but the paper's mixed time-direction statements remain unresolved.
Operational implications must pass through field evidence and remain conditional extrapolations.
Return every diagnostic to the pumping field: better fit does not replace field characterization.